DOCSP-41967: Insert documents (#116)
mongodb/docs-php-library: source/write/insert.txt

.. _php-write-insert:

================
Insert Documents
================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: code example, write, save, create

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+php-library+} to add
documents to a MongoDB collection by performing **insert operations**.

An insert operation inserts one or more documents into a MongoDB collection.

> You can perform an insert operation by using the ``MongoDB\Collection::insertOne()``
> method to insert a single document or the ``MongoDB\Collection::insertMany()``
> method to insert one or more documents.

Reviewer: Personal opinion: with a list it's easier to read.

```suggestion
You can perform an insert operation by using this ``MongoDB\Collection`` methods:
-  ``insertOne()`` to insert a single document
-  ``insertMany()`` to insert one or more documents.
```

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``restaurants`` collection in the ``sample_restaurants``
database from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. To access this collection
from your PHP application, instantiate a ``MongoDB\Client`` that connects to an Atlas cluster
and assign the following value to your ``collection`` variable:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/insert.php
    :language: php
    :dedent:
    :start-after: start-db-coll
    :end-before: end-db-coll

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:atlas:`Get Started with Atlas </getting-started>` guide.

The ``_id`` Field
-----------------

In a MongoDB collection, each document *must* contain an ``_id`` field
with a unique field value.

MongoDB allows you to manage this field in two ways:

> - You can set this field for each document yourself, ensuring each
>   ``_id`` field value is unique.
> - You can let the driver automatically generate unique ``ObjectId``
>   values for each document ``_id``.

Reviewer 2: S: Simplify
```suggestion
- Set it for each document yourself, ensuring each
  ``_id`` field value is unique.
- Let the driver automatically generate unique ``ObjectId``
  values for each document ``_id``.
```

Unless you can guarantee uniqueness, we recommend
letting the driver automatically generate ``_id`` values.

.. note::

   Duplicate ``_id`` values violate unique index constraints, which
   causes the driver to return a ``MongoDB\Driver\Exception\BulkWriteException``
   error.

To learn more about the ``_id`` field, see the
:manual:`Unique Indexes </core/index-unique/>` guide in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

To learn more about document structure and rules, see the
:manual:`Documents </core/document>` guide in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

Insert One Document
-------------------

To add a single document to a MongoDB collection, call the ``MongoDB\Collection::insertOne()``
method and pass the document you want to add.

The following example inserts a document into the ``restaurants`` collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/insert.php
    :language: php
    :dedent:
    :start-after: start-insert-one
    :end-before: end-insert-one

Insert Multiple Documents
-------------------------

To add multiple documents to a MongoDB collection, call the ``MongoDB\Collection::insertMany()``

> method and pass an array that contains the documents you want to add.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
method and pass an array that contains the list of documents you want to add.
```

> method and pass an array that stores the documents you want to add.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
method and pass an array that contains the documents you want to add.
```

The following example inserts two documents into the ``restaurants`` collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/insert.php
    :language: php
    :dedent:
    :start-after: start-insert-many
    :end-before: end-insert-many

Modify Insert Behavior
----------------------

You can modify the behavior of the ``MongoDB\Collection::insertOne()`` and
``MongoDB\Collection::insertMany()`` methods by passing an array that specifies
option values as a parameter. The following table describes some options
you can set in the array:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Field
     - Description

   * - ``bypassDocumentValidation``

>      - | If set to ``true``, allows the write to opt out of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - | If set to ``true``, allows the write operation to opt out of
```

       | Defaults to the write concern of the namespace.
       | **Type**: ``MongoDB\Driver\WriteConcern``

   * - ``ordered``
     - | If set to ``true``, the operation stops inserting documents when one insert
         fails. If ``false``, the operation continues to insert the remaining documents
         when one insert fails. You cannot pass this option to the ``insertOne()`` method.
       | Defaults to ``true``.
       | **Type**: ``bool``

   * - ``comment``
     - | A comment to attach to the operation. For more information, see the :manual:`insert command
         fields </reference/command/insert/#command-fields>` guide in the
         {+mdb-server+} manual.
       | **Type**: any valid BSON type
       
Example
~~~~~~~

The following code uses the ``insertMany()`` method to insert three new
documents into a collection. Because the ``bypassDocumentValidation`` field
is set to ``true`` in an options array, this
insert operation bypasses document-level validation:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/write/insert.php
    :language: php
    :dedent:
    :start-after: start-modify
    :end-before: end-modify

Additional Information
----------------------

> .. TODO:

Reviewer: Will this be addressed in a follow-up ticket?

Author: Yes, there will be a final cleanup ticket that resolves all the TODOs

.. _php-write-insert:

================
Insert Documents
================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: code example, write, save, create

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+php-library+} to add
documents to a MongoDB collection by performing **insert operations**.

An insert operation inserts one or more documents into a MongoDB collection.
You can perform an insert operation by using the following methods:

- ``MongoDB\Collection::insertOne()`` to insert a single document

> - ``MongoDB\Collection::insertMany()`` method to insert one or more documents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``MongoDB\Collection::insertMany()`` to insert one or more documents
```
